I did another interview with a guy who was working at a lab so probably we have to put all of this information at the Segment 3 Lab the very first thing he told me was that becuase of NDAs and confidentaliaty he cant share that much of a information with me so most of the parts were general. Their main job at the lab was investigating the behaviour of materials when we talk about corrosion. he is not in the making team. Their lab is working with the national defense of the Canada related ot the matierals that they used for the ship. He is testing them with the lab instructors and will compare it with the previous versions as AM is new. They will make report for that they are working at characterization. The first question is about the process of the whole program in general. The first they will work on the micro structure of the mateiral that they have recieved or mico structure and compare it with the traditional methods to compare their changes. Tehn they do some corrison test for the alloy based on its previous behaviour and current tests and they will decide about the experiment different alloys have different tests they have different destructive and non destructive.
Tehy will do some changes to the matierail to se that if changes could increase or optimize the quality or no. The ywill do some treatment like heat processing or testing. Tehy will make the report. In the meeting supervisors will be decided to the process were good or not or just the alloy can be declined. They are two main people and also other people for industries. 
The main challenge related is that AM are immature and main problem is about the costumer service related to the devices and lack of human resources for checking the device could in crease so much time. Also becuase of confidentiality and lack of clearity about the devices could cause problems and detials are not shared. 
The team are from students master phd and professors from mechanical engineering department. also they do everything from the device production and optimization of parts, charectrization and eveyrthing related ot the thing that industrial partner is needed also some time they will test the industrial partner products that have been produced by them in the lab. The process from 0 that uses mostly by powder and they do have high end facilites in their labs worth of millions to do all of the processes there. High investment the devices are the best in the North America. 
At some point they will send the products while they are black box to toher universites and ask them for just some tests nothing more as eveyrhting is confidential finally we do the evaluation by ourselves we only need their instruments. 
There is no ideal process we use the instruments to have the best reuslts ever it can be failured or high time scehduled we should see that if we do have feasibility of doing one thing or not but based on the parameters we can decide and we can do efforts. 
Since the devices are getting down and some problems are new they havent seen before it would be hard for them to fix the device. 
AM devices are expensive so finding the right people is hard as the matierals are so snsitive till couple of decades AM cant be replacable that much. 
Expensive devices and powder also so expensive as well and you should make it logical to invest on sth that you need. You have to compare it with the industry that you are working.  