

--- FILE: 2026 Interview Practice and Structure_CLB.pptx ---

Interview Practice and Structure
Carol Bartlett, MSc. (SHE/HER)
Jan 15, 2026
KEY CHARACTERISTICS 
AGENDA
INTERVIEW STRUCTURE
WHAT CAN YOU LEARN IN AN INTERVIEW
PRACTICE: IT IS A SKILL TO DEVELOP
GETTING TO THE WHY
Interviews:
Getting the story behind the story. 

Getting a pass “This is interesting.”
Robots in Hospitals 
Currently, a person delivers drugs from the pharmacy to each floor.

Hypothesis: A robot could deliver drugs securely to each floor.


Most produce comes to Newfoundland island via the ferry, the ferry doesn’t run in bad weather.

Hypothesis: Shipping groceries with us would secure timely deliver in bad weather times.
Trucking of Groceries

A gift experience
The WHY
The purpose of the interviews in customer discovery is to see the connections. 

Cause and Effect

Getting to the bottom of something.
A cautionary tale of why 
Key Characteristics
In-depth and Open-ended
Contextual Understanding
Combines Interviews with Observation
Focuses on the "Why" Behind Actions

This topic is accessible, allows for diverse responses, and creates opportunities to uncover deeper motivations like time management, stress reduction, and family priorities.
The Power of Why
Example Interaction:
Interviewer: "Why did you decide to start using a meal kit delivery service?"
Customer: "I wanted to save time during the week."
Interviewer: "Why was saving time important to you?"
Customer: "I was spending too much time planning meals and grocery shopping."
Interviewer: "Why was that a problem for you?"
Customer: "I felt like I didn’t have enough time for other important things, like work and family."
Interviewer: "Why is it important to have more time for work and family?"
Customer: "I value being productive at work and want to spend more quality time with my kids."
Interviewer: "Why do you feel the meal kit service helps with that?"
Customer: "It makes me feel organized and less stressed, which improves my focus and my mood."
Why did you decide to study at your university?

Switch roles

Why did you decide to join this club or L2M?
Groups

‹#›
Part 1:
The Welcome
Spend 2-3 minutes on ‘why’
Why this interview?
and what is it about? 
“Thank you for taking the time to speak with me today. I want to hear your thoughts on a few things relating to the oceans industry because I’m working on a project and before we spend a lot of money on it, I want to know if the problem I want to solve exists and is important, exists but isn’t so important, or doesn’t exist.”
I am only looking for your insights.”
OR
“So I don’t want to sell anything, but only take information and learn from you.”

“The interview consists of six questions… does that sound good to you?”

PART 1: The Welcome
Part 2: Positioning Your Customer
The objective is to build up 
their experience
‹#›
Part 2: Positioning Your Customer
In this step, you want your customer to feel that they have a lot to offer you in advice. 
Ask them questions about themselves. Elevate them.
Part 3: Ranking the Problem
Part 3: Ranking the Problem
Having a problem and knowing the cost of the problem are different. It is up to us to find the problem, and rank it.

Frequency

Intensity 

Part 3: Ranking
The Problem
It is a “nice-to-have”, a “must-have”, or a “don’t want”
“Thank you for your support. You have a wealth of experience! Now, I would like to ask you a few questions that I have put together. We may go a little deeper on some questions…”
What is the biggest challenge?
2. How often does it occur?
3. When it occurs how intense is it on a scale of 1 to 10?
4. How frequent does this happen on a scale of 1 to 10?
5. What makes your current solution awesome?
6. What makes your current solution not so awesome?
‹#›
‹#›
Part 4: The Hook
You want to establish a relationship with this person: what is your hook to follow up 

Part 4: The HOOK
“So I promised at the start I am not here to sell to you, but to learn from you.” 
“I only want to know if you would be interested in seeing what we develop out of this when we have something ready?”
“Also, we are looking to interview people similar to you, could you introduce me to someone who is as experienced as you are or has something to offer in our quest?”
‹#›
In Review
The Interview Formula
Part 1: The Welcome
Part 2: Positioning your Customer
Part 3: Ranking the Problem
Part 4: The Hook
‹#›
Key characteristics:
The interviewee will do 90% of the talking
Use open-ended questions 
Explore the why and motivations
You must be ready to hear something new and BE CHANGED BY IT.
What did you observe?

How might we improve the gift giving experience?

What did you learn from the interview experience?


--- FILE: L2M Oceans 2026 Intro to Lean Startup Method FINAL 090126.pdf ---

Introduction to the 
Lean Startup Method
Randy Gillespie, MSc, FGC
January 15, 2026
DOING BUSINESS IN THE BLUE ECONOMY
AGENDA
L2M VALIDATE – SAILING DIRECTIONS
ASSIGNMENT
LEAN STARTUP METHOD
FALLING IN LOVE WITH THE PROBLEM
• “Take my innovation from pilot phase to viable product”
• “Build a network with individuals who share innovative 
ideas”
• “Showcase our innovation”
• “Validate our solution with actual customers and get 
feedback to help improve it”
• “Refine our business model; validate our market 
approach; enhance our commercialization strategy”
Why are you here?
• “Lab2Market is a national program in Canada to 
equip graduate students and their faculty 
supervisors with the entrepreneurial skills 
needed to assess the [commercial] viability of 
their university-based research”
About Lab2Market
More info: https://lab2market.ca/
https://www.nsf.gov/news/special_reports/i-corps/
Equip you with the knowledge and tools needed to 
assess the desirability of your startup
Classes are labs – lectures and reference materials are tools, not 
answers.
Simulate the pressures, uncertainty and challenges of a 
real startup
Get ready for long days, iterations, pivots and failure (learning).
Lab2Market program objectives
Our expectations
• This is a full-contact, immersive, 
experiential learning program
• Full time for 10 weeks (Orientation + Core 
program)
• You will work at a startup tempo, with urgency
• You will spend the majority of your time outside 
of your research community (comfort zone)
• Participate and learn as a team (EL + TL + Mentor)
Entrepreneurial Lead
• Scheduler – organize and manage team meetings; let others 
know when you need them, and why
• Marketer – spread the word about what you are trying to do, and 
why
• Customer service representative – lead the Customer Discovery 
process
• Grunt – do whatever needs to be done, when it needs to be done.
Source: The 10 Daily Roles of a Startup Entrepreneur
Your role:
Technical Lead (TL)
• Deep understanding of the science/technology behind your 
product/service, and latest developments in the field
• Typically (but not always) more theoretical than practical
• When the need to iterate or pivot arises, the TL can help answer 
the question ‘Is that scientifically/technically feasible?’
• Deep understanding of research enterprise; can secure additional 
funding/students to undertake any additional research/product 
development (as required)
• Maintains a wide network of other experts in the field
Mentor
• Mentors are people with real world experience
• The mentor’s role is to:
• Help you ‘get out of the laboratory’
• Share contacts
• Offer ‘real world’ entrepreneurial advice
• Give critical feedback
• You arrange your schedule around mentor availability, 
not the other way around.
Source: Lecture 1 intro bus model cust dev 120411 (slideshare.net)
Managing team dynamics
• Schedule weekly team meetings, with phone/text/email 
updates to ensure you stay aligned and accountable to 
your goal and plan (remember planning?).
• Ask your team what they are thinking, feeling, or 
experiencing. Likewise, be clear about what you are 
thinking or feeling.
• Avoid thinking in terms of ‘right-wrong’; ‘all-or-nothing’. 
Find compromise when options/differences arise and 
think about what’s best for your startup.
COMMUNICATE; COMMUNICATE; COMMUNICATE
QUESTIONS?
Research vs Entrepreneurship
Observation Hypothesis Collect data Analysis Verify/Falsify
Verify/FalsifyAnalysisCollect dataHypothesisObservation
Customer discovery
• Research is the process of finding/developing that next big scientific, 
engineering or technology breakthrough
• Its about turning money (grants, funding) into knowledge.
• Innovation is the application of new processes or techniques to create 
value.
• Its about turning knowledge (research) into money (revenue, profit)
What about my research?
• Your research is one of the critical pieces 
needed to build a successful startup/company.
• It is part of your ‘value proposition’
• But, customers really don’t care about your 
research.
• They are trying to accomplish a task or solve a 
problem.
What about my research?
Marine Radar
Doing business in the blue economy
• Economically
• Environmentally
• Emotionally
Oceans are important
Source: The Economist, 
October 2024
• Unique and challenging environment 
means unique and challenging 
problems and needs (i.e. opportunities)
• For example:
Ocean challenges




• Mariners are, by necessity, conservative
• NOT luddites; but very cautious/careful
• The key things that keep ocean industry up 
at night are:
o Safety
o Efficiency
o Profit
o Environmental sustainability (social 
licence)
What does this all mean for your ocean startup?
• “Commons" is a general term for shared resources in 
which each stakeholder has an equal interest (Digital 
Library Of The Commons (indiana.edu))
• All ocean enterprise is conducted under some form of 
‘social licence’
• Regulatory framework is a key consideration
• As such, the pertinent regulator(s) are important 
stakeholders (more on this next week).
• Regulations represent barriers to your customers, and as 
such, opportunities for your startup
Navigating ‘The Commons’
The Tragedy of the Commons (mtu.edu)
Opportunities in regulation
MARKET SEGMENTS/APPLICATIONS
What is ‘ocean’ technology?
Sonar

QUESTIONS?
Intro to Lean Startup

Startup vs Company
• Startup: a temporary organization with a 
mandate to search for a repeatable and
scalable business model [Function: Search to 
validate assumptions]
• Company: a business organization which sells a 
product or service in exchange for revenue and 
profit [Function: Execute a business plan]
Lean Startup
• Risk reduction methodology
• Three components:
• 1. Business Model (core business 
assumptions and hypotheses)
• 2. Customer Discovery (a way to test core 
assumptions and hypotheses)
• 3. Agile Engineering (iterative product 
development)
Business model
Describes how your startup creates, 
delivers and captures value for both you 
and your customers.
Business model canvas
Source: A. Osterwalder, Business Model Generation
Business model canvas
Much more on this 
next week.
Source: A. Osterwalder, Business Model Generation
Start here Test here
Guess GuessGuess
Guess
Guess
Guess
Guess
Guess
Guess
Customer Discovery
Customer
Validation
Customer
Discovery
Customer
Creation
Company
Building
Customer discovery
• Lowers the odds of 
spending 
time/effort and 
getting nothing in 
return.
• Turns your initial 
hypotheses 
(guesses ) about 
your customers 
into facts.

100 Customer Interviews
By March 26, 2026
QUESTIONS?
Fall in Love with the Problem
Lab2Market Validate PRIME DIRECTIVE
Your job is to
validate that a problem/need exists,
understand who has it 
and only then 
decide how best to solve it
You are not trying to educate your customers; 
you are trying to learn from them.
The #1 reason startups fail:
42%
No market 
need
Problem versus Need
• Does your product/service solve a customer 
problem or serve a customer need?
• A problem is a challenge that must be solved in 
order to avoid pain for yourself or others. It is 
required.
• A need is a challenge that must be fulfilled in order 
to gain pleasure for yourself or others. It is desired.
Source: What is the difference between problems and needs? - Quora
Problem versus Need
Search for Product – Market fit

Value Proposition Canvas | Free Presentation Template - Piktochart
avoid
Your assignment
Business Thesis – first draft
• Takes the form……
Our help(s) ________________________ who want to
Product/Service Customer Segment(s)
by __
Job to be done Functional customer pain/gain (e.g., reducing, avoiding)
and  .
Social/emotional customer pain/gain (e.g., prestige, happiness, confidence)
Business thesis - example
Our help(s) ________________________ who want to
Product/Service Customer Segment(s)
by __
Job to be done Functional customer pain/gain (e.g., reducing, avoiding)
and  .
Social/emotional customer pain/gain (e.g. confidence)
Chart plotter Ship Captains
navigate safely Accurately tracking ship position
Knowing sea conditions ahead
Business Thesis – first draft (alternate form)
We do X
(the very specific thing you deliver) 
for Y
(the very specific customer who values this) 
so they can Z
(the positive outcome impossible without you), 
and ultimately  A
(the real, downstream value to them)
Characteristics of a good business 
thesis:
• It should be concise, clear and focused
• It should describe a customer 
problem/need, and how you think your 
product / service will address it.
• It will guide your Business Model and 
Customer Discovery.
Customer
segments
Customer
relationships
Value
proposition
Key
activities
Key
partners
Key
resources
Costs Revenue
Channels
Business model canvas: first draft 
Customer
segments
Customer
relationships
Value
proposition
Key
activities
Key
partners
Key
resources
Costs Revenue
Channels
Industry 
standard 
airborne 
data 
acquisition, 
processing, 
analysis, 
reports
Forestry
Municipal
Mineral 
exploration
Fisheries
Contract 
reports
Phone
Mail-outs
Meetings
RFP’s
Data:
- planning
- collection
- processing
- analysis
Cameras
Sensors
IT
Team (HR)
PAL
- Aircraft
- Office 
space
- Admin 
support
Capex – equipment
Opex – aircraft charter, 
equipment maintenance/repair, 
HR
Fee for service
Example: 

Recap
Startup vs Company
• Startup: a temporary organization with a 
mandate to search for a repeatable and
scalable business model [Function: Search to 
validate assumptions]
• Company: a business organization which sells a 
product or service in exchange for revenue and 
profit [Function: Execute a business plan]
Lab2Market PRIME DIRECTIVE
Your job is to
validate a problem/need,
understand who has it and, 
only then,
determine how best to solve it
You are not trying to educate your customers; 
you are trying to learn from them.
100 Customer Interviews
By March 26, 2026
QUESTIONS?
Resources
• Texts:
o Blank, S. and B. Dorf, 2020. The Startup Owner’s Manual. 
John Wiley and Sons, Inc., 571p.
o Osterwalder, A. and Y. Pigneur, 2010. Business Model 
Generation. John Wiley and Sons, Inc., 280p.
o Constable, G., 2014. Talking to Humans. 86p.
o Levine, Uri, 2023. Fall in love with the problem, not the 
solution: A handbook for entrepreneurs. Matt Holt, 394p.
Videos:
• Conducting Customer Discovery Interviews - startupweekend
(wistia.com)
• Harvard i-lab | Startup Secrets: Business Model - YouTube
• (41) Osterwalder explaining the Business Model Canvas in 6 
Minutes – YouTube
• Falling in love with the problem - Uri Levine
• Web:
▪ Steve Blank Innovation and Entrepreneurship
▪ Ocean Opportunities: Science & Stories from the Sea
▪ (3) LinkedIn (The Ripple newsletter)
THANK YOU
January 15, 2026


--- FILE: L2M Talking To Humans_Jo_ Jan15_2026.pptx ---

Talking to Humans

Alternative title: How to avoid sounding like a bot


Joanna Buczkowska-McCumber

INTERVIEW TIPS
AGENDA
USING BOTS TO AVOID SOUNDING LIKE ONE
PRACTICAL EXERCISES
HOMEWORK
5 STEPS FOR SUCCESS
5 STEPS FOR SUCCESS
STEP 1: BE HUMAN



Cultural Considerations

Be Real, 
Be You


Know Yourself

There’s no special map. There’s no single skill. But there are a SET of special skills! You have to get out of the lab, into the world around you, and actively reach out to people.

STEP 2: FINDING THE
RIGHT PEOPLE
When You Find The Right People
STEP 2: FINDING THE RIGHT PEOPLE
HOW?!? Customer Discovery!

100 interviews empowers you to:

(In)validate the problem/solution fit
(In)validate the business model
Begin to identify + test your hypothesis


We’re on the hunt for patterns, perspectives, and that wonderful problem/solution fit!
CHOOSING HUMANS
CHOOSING HUMANS
First, let’s admit we don’t know what we don’t know. Sometimes the process of elimination can be easier to start with than getting it perfect on the first try.

Who do you want to speak to?

How will you know they’re “right”?

WORK SMARTER
You don’t know everyone. You don’t even know most people. So, it’s time to get comfortable being a bit uncomfortable and getting to know strangers.

Explore LinkedIn (slowly and steadily)
Ask for referrals 
Check out industry groups for membership directories
Check out industry conferences for speakers and sponsors
Check out industry publications 
Check out your alumni association

TIME TO TALK
STEP 3: TALKING TO HUMANS
Talk is the key word here!

Is an email with a list of questions a conversation? No.

Is listing a series of questions without a breath between at someone a conversation? No.

You want to speak with people so that you can follow interesting threads and their logic — not just your script.
STEP 4: STOP TALKING
TWIST! Step four is all about LISTENING!

The whole secret to talking to people and doing customer discovery is really LISTENING.

In a good interview, you’ll do very little talking. Instead, you’ll do a lot of listening, asking follow up questions, and writing things down.
STEP 5: LEARN
STEP 5: LEARN
Put on your analytical hats! We’re reviewing the conversation.

What worked really well?
What didn’t work so great?
What did you forget to ask?
What’s one thing you’d try differently next time?
What’s one thing that you want to absolutely keep the same?

WRITE. IT. DOWN.

QUESTIONS?
INTERVIEW TIPS
INTERVIEW TIPS



Different is good

Start at the start


Build a strategy

LET’S TEST THIS OUT!
Build the structure for an outreach strategy:

Goal: 15 completed interviews every week.

Challenge: Getting that done every week, AND uploaded to AirTable

Strategic Considerations:
How many invites for interviews will you need to send out?
How are you going to schedule + manage those?
How are you going to know what to adapt or revise?
How are you going to work through a challenge?
How are you going to celebrate an achievement?

QUESTIONS?
AI (+ LLMs) IS YOUR FRIEND
Leveraging AI + LLMs
You can absolutely use ChatGPT (and others) to help you write your emails and messages. Get creative with prompts. Play with subject lines. 

Leah’s Dire Warning: DO NOT use whatever an AI tool gives you as the final edition of your message. It’s not human, it’s not you. You need to be you in the email—it’s the first impression you get to make. Make it real, make it you.

So, you take the AI output and treat it as a first draft. Then you make revisions. Then you can send it.

Pitching a great ask

Be short and sweet in your message. Put the ask up front/up top. 
You’re on their time—you meet when they can.
Be clear that you’re not selling anything (because you ARE NOT SELLING ANYTHING!)
Be on time. This is not long. 15-20 minutes is awesome.
If you were referred, let them know! 
PITCHING THE INTERVIEW
What Goes in The Email?

Subject Line: Succinct specificity is the goal

Email Components:

Greeting
Introduction
Ask
Value Demonstration
Scheduling
Sign off
QUESTIONS?
EVERYONE IS UNCOMFORTABLE
BUT WHAT DO YOU ACTUALLY SAY?!
Start with a basic structure—what do you want to learn from this person, and why them? Write that down.

Decide how you’re going to reach out. Write that down.

Write a script. Practice it. 

Take it for a spin in the real world. Write down what doesn’t work. Note what does. Adapt the script. Try again.
Cold Calls and Voice Mail

Structure: Greeting, Your Name, Ask/Value, Intro details, Sign Off

Example: 
Hello (their Name), This is (Your Name). I’m calling to see if you’d be available for a short chat this week or early next. I’m a University of X student currently in the Canadian Lab2Market program and I’m exploring how X is used in your line of work. As the Y of your org, I thought you might have some interesting experiences you might be open to sharing with me. If you’re open to a 20 minute chat, I’d really appreciate it. You can reach me at (Phone number) or (email). And I’ll follow up in a few days too. Thanks so much!

THE GOAL IS TO LEARN
Step 5 in Talking to Humans is the big one: Learn. You were you, found and chose humans to talk to wisely, talked to them, listened closely, and now you put that learning together.

You are not interviewing to sell a product
You are not interviewing to pitch a concept
You are not interviewing for a job

EXERCISE TIME!
The Challenge
Write a draft voice mail script centered on getting an interview to learn more from industry professionals.

Timer is set, individual work, cameras on. 

Pop any questions in the chat! 
The Challenge
Ok, turning up the heat on these challenges! Now you’re going into breakout rooms to test the scripts on other people!

One of you is the caller, the other two the unsuspecting interviewees. Practice leaving a voicemail. 

Each of you take a turn leaving your voicemail. 

Once finished provide feedback to each other. 
QUESTIONS?
LIGHTNING ROUND
MORE TIPS FOR TALKING TO HUMANS (and not hating it)
Holding a GREAT interview
Start on time, end on time
Have an agenda, stick to it
Have 3-4 clear, strong questions ready
Refer to to things you’ve learned in your prep to tee up a question “I noticed on your website that you’re partners with XYZ company and have been for many years. Can you tell me about your process for selecting long-term partners?”
MORE TIPS FOR TALKING TO HUMANS (and not hating it)
Good questions to ask—why, what, and who

Ask why, a lot. Why is that the process? Why is that so important? Why is that the goal? Why is that a challenge? Why is that under someone else’s responsibilities? Why is that a priority market?
MORE TIPS FOR TALKING TO HUMANS (and not hating it)
Ask “Is there anything I didn’t ask that you were anticipating or think I should know?”

Ask for a referral for another interview “Thank you, this was a wonderful chat. Do you know of anyone else that I shouldn’t miss speaking with? I’d appreciate any referrals you can share.”
MORE TIPS FOR TALKING TO HUMANS (and not hating it)
Use their name
Take your time
Don’t forget to breathe
Ask if you can record, be cool if you can’t 
Use positive words
Don’t say “Greetings” to open it, say “Hello”
Use classic sign-offs like “Kind regards” “Thank you” or “Sincerely”

MORE TIPS FOR TALKING TO HUMANS (and not hating it)
Focus on their experience and process — this is not about you!
Don’t interrupt, but do ask for clarification
Get them to tell a story or example to illustrate a point or experience
Check body language — there’s and yours
Don’t get defensive, this isn’t personal
When in doubt, don’t be funny
THANK YOU!
